docs/intro/what.md, before:

---
title: 🔮 What is SourceCred?
description: Overview of what SourceCred is and how it works
---

Everything people do to support a project—like writing code, filing bug reports, organizing meetups, or even mediating hard discussions—is considered a contribution.

These contributions are connected to each other based on their relationships. For example, a pull request may fix a particular bug, and a code review may review that pull request.

This network of contributions and relationships form a contribution graph. SourceCred applies the [PageRank algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank)  to this graph, generating a score, called cred for every contribution.

The basic idea is: a contribution earns cred if it is connected to other contributions that earn lots of cred. Contributors are connected to the contributions they've helped with, which means that they also earn cred.

The project's community and maintainers have a lot of influence over this process. They can reconfigure SourceCred weights and parameters. For example, they could assign extra weight to some very important contributions, or decrease the weights of contributions that seem spammy. They can also add heuristics to do this automatically.

Commit message:

A fresh take on the intro document
I think the intro/landing page "What is SourceCred" doc is the single most important doc; we should think about what we want to say here and invest in having a clear message.

Here's one take, based on chats with @wchargin, @hammadj, and @Bex2594.

Paired with @Bex2594

docs/intro/what.md, after:

---
title: 🔮 What is SourceCred?
description: Overview of what SourceCred is and how it works
---

## A Social Algorithm

SourceCred enables communities to track **cred**, a quantitative metric that shows how much value a contribution
or contributor has added to the community. Cred is calculated by tracking the contributions of a project--and
every contribution that has gone into it--into a network or **contribution graph**. Contributions in the graph earn cred
if they are connected to other important contributions, and contributors earn cred if they create
high-cred contributions.

## An Economic System

Once a community is up-and-running with cred, they can begin to issue **grain**. Grain is a community-controlled
digital currency that is distributed based on cred scores. Thus, a contributor earns grain, and a sponsor can
support that contributor by buying their grain.

Grain represents your skin in the game within a community. You can use your grain to vote on values, and to set priorities.
In particular, you can use your grain to **boost** contributions, in which case they will earn more cred.
You earn a share of the contribution's future cred, which means you're rewarded if you boost valuable work.

## For Postcapitalist Communities

SourceCred is being built because we believe we need a new way to organize communities. We need communities
that are decentralized but productive; communities that can operate in an open-source way, with everyone
contributing their ideas and value, but that can also pay and support their core contributors. We believe that
SourceCred opens the door to a new generation of organizations that can outcompete corporations and bring about
human empowerment.
