---
id: version-0.5.0-released
title: Version 0.5.0 released
author: Beanow
author_url: https://github.com/Beanow
author_image_url: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/497556?v=4&s=200
---

It's been months since the last versioned release, so there's a lot new to
v0.5.0!

You can find the release [on GitHub][GitHub release] or as a [Docker image].
More details on how to use them can be found in the [installation guide].

Since this is a large release, I'll only touch on several major additions here.

### Discourse plugin

Discourse forums can be analyzed with this release. And from using it so far, I
think it's a really interesting plugin.

Discourse forums by default require no authentication to be set up. Meaning you
can load most Discourse forums out there and explore them with SourceCred, no
approval required. The [plugin setup guide][discourse setup] walks through the
commands to do this.

Much thanks to the straightforward 💚 likes on Discourse, the out-of-the-box
settings tend to be quite reasonable. Most of the tweaking involves balancing
the Discourse weight relative to other platforms.

### Initiatives

[Initiatives] are added to SourceCred by a new plugin of the same name.
Instructions are in its [setup guide][initiatives setup].

While being technical to use in its current version, it adds a number of new
capabilities. Example of capabilities I'd like to look into are adding
contributions for which there's no plugin, incentivizing work before it's
completed and grouping contributions together to value them more easily.

Since it's a recent addition, the jury is still out on whether we like the
default settings and what the best ways to use it are. There's a good chance
it will evolve as we test it out for ourselves and receive feedback from you.

### Docker image

As mentioned at the beginning of this post, SourceCred is being released as
Docker images as well. They are available as [`sourcecred/sourcecred` on
DockerHub][Docker image].

The tags to be aware of are:
- `latest` (default) which refers to the most recent versioned release.
- `vX.X.X` versioned releases, which allow you to use a specific version.
- `dev` which corresponds to the latest `master` branch.

Even though this is the first major version to be included, the images are
already seeing regular use by the community, especially because it's a great way
to set up automation for instances of SourceCred.

### New data format: soucrecred output

To support analyzing SourceCred's data further, we're exposing an additional
JSON format.

Previously we've had the "scores" format which exported the Cred scores of users
and the "timeline cred" internal format which is not very easy to consume. With
this format we're hoping to strike a balance, exposing more data than "scores"
while also being comprehensive.

Have a look at [the GitHub issue][sourcecred output issue] for more information.

---

That's all for now. Feel free to reach out to us with questions or issues.
:telephone_receiver:
- [GitHub](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred)
- [Discord](https://discord.gg/tsBTgc9)
- [Discourse](https://discourse.sourcecred.io)

[GitHub release]: https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/releases/tag/v0.5.0
[Docker image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/sourcecred/sourcecred/tags
[installation guide]: ../docs/setup/installation
[discourse setup]: ../docs/setup/plugins/discourse
[Initiatives]: ../docs/concepts/initiatives
[initiatives setup]: ../docs/setup/plugins/initiatives
[sourcecred output issue]: https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/issues/1773
