docs/beta/best-resources-for-new-contributors.md, before:

---
title: 🌱 Best Resources for New Contributors
description:
  The tools, guides and resources that are most relevant to people looking to
  start actively contributing to SourceCred.
---

## Want to be part of the SoureCred team?

First, try getting familiar with these helpful docs:

- What is SourceCred?
- How Cred Works
- How Grain Works
- FAQ
- Getting Involved
- Our Platforms
- Our Calls
- \*\*Checking Your Cred/Grain
- \*\*Roles and Trust
- \*\*Code of Conduct

  (\*\*Coming soon!)

## Organizational Tools

We have a few MVP (minimum viable product) organizational tools for our internal
operations. Looking through these can help you get an idea of what kinds of
projects are being worked on in SourceCred.

### <ins>[Initiatives Index Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IYNXNghAnMAGPof3f9bZZQeIGxlOHJQrUmu9qONY3KQ/edit#gid=0)</ins>

The Initiatives Index is an MVP tool for exploring the current projects/goals
within SourceCred right now. Each "Branch" of the project has "Initiatives" (aka
projects or goals). Looking through the list you can see whether an initiative
is in action or on the wishlist, who's working on it, and how high of a priority
it is for us. Poke through and see if anything catches your eye or sparks an
idea. If you find yourself really gravitating towards a particular branch,
consider going to their Branch Meeting.

### <ins>[Docs Index Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IYNXNghAnMAGPof3f9bZZQeIGxlOHJQrUmu9qONY3KQ/edit#gid=0)</ins>

The Docs Index is a spreadsheet where we organize the documentation we're
currently writing and would like to write. If you are interested in writing,
reviewing, editing or written communication, get connected to the Docs Team and
see if you can help out.

### <ins>[Contributor Directory](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14cGVeH_s4eRSx0DKPZBlhel6QucAq5QzXoALr_EhBzM/edit#gid=1047682516)</ins>

Here you'll find a spreadsheet with a link at the top. By clicking the link,
you'll be taken to a form where you can share about yourself and what kind of
contributor you are. This just helps folks get to know you and your role in the
community better. Looking through the spreadsheet can give you a better idea of
who someone is as well! Note that you can always change your answers later by
editing the doc itself, but you should never edit someone else's answers.

Commit message:

Changed language from Initiatives to Trunks to reflect new structure (#206)

docs/beta/best-resources-for-new-contributors.md, after:

---
title: 🌱 Best Resources for New Contributors
description:
  The tools, guides and resources that are most relevant to people looking to
  start actively contributing to SourceCred.
---

## Want to be part of the SoureCred team?

First, try getting familiar with these helpful docs:

- What is SourceCred?
- How Cred Works
- How Grain Works
- FAQ
- Getting Involved
- Our Platforms
- Our Calls
- \*\*Checking Your Cred/Grain
- \*\*Roles and Trust
- \*\*Code of Conduct

  (\*\*Coming soon!)

## Organizational Tools

We have a few MVP (minimum viable product) organizational tools for our internal
operations. Looking through these can help you get an idea of what kinds of
projects are being worked on in SourceCred.

### <ins>[Initiatives Index Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IYNXNghAnMAGPof3f9bZZQeIGxlOHJQrUmu9qONY3KQ/edit#gid=0)</ins>

The Initiatives Index is an MVP tool for exploring the current projects/goals
within SourceCred right now. Each "Trunk" of the project has "Branches," which are smaller, more direct teams within a Trunk. Each Branch then has "Twigs" (over-arching projects/goals) and then "Leaves" (specific, smaller projects to complete Twig projects). Looking through the list you can see whether an initiative
is in action or on the wishlist, who's working on it, and how high of a priority
it is for us. Poke through and see if anything catches your eye or sparks an
idea. If you find yourself really gravitating towards a particular branch,
consider going to their Branch Meeting.

### <ins>[Docs Index Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IYNXNghAnMAGPof3f9bZZQeIGxlOHJQrUmu9qONY3KQ/edit#gid=0)</ins>

The Docs Index is a spreadsheet where we organize the documentation we're
currently writing and would like to write. If you are interested in writing,
reviewing, editing or written communication, get connected to the Docs Team and
see if you can help out.

### <ins>[Contributor Directory](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14cGVeH_s4eRSx0DKPZBlhel6QucAq5QzXoALr_EhBzM/edit#gid=1047682516)</ins>

Here you'll find a spreadsheet with a link at the top. By clicking the link,
you'll be taken to a form where you can share about yourself and what kind of
contributor you are. This just helps folks get to know you and your role in the
community better. Looking through the spreadsheet can give you a better idea of
who someone is as well! Note that you can always change your answers later by
editing the doc itself, but you should never edit someone else's answers.
