---
title: ☎️ Our Calls
description: See the various calls, meetings, work sessions, and jams the
  SourceCred community has on a regular basis.
---
SourceCred is a community in which most contributors are remote and work
asynchronously, allowing anyone to contribute no matter their location and
availability. We hold regularly scheduled calls, open to everyone, to cultivate
a culture of collaboration and meaningful connection between members.
These calls have different specific purposes (and expectations), and are held on
the [SourceCred Discord server](https://sourcecred.io/discord) using the voice
and video channels.

You can see what types of calls are currently scheduled on our[ public calendar](http://sourcecred.io/calendar).

## Weekly Community Call

The Community Call is a great space for newcomers and experienced community members alike. We take time to check in with each other as people, and get to know the newer people. Come join us at one and share a bit about; who you are, why you're curious about SourceCred, and what you like to work on. It's also a great way to get to know the other participants and ask any questions you may have about who we are and what we do. 

When: Weekly, [**Tuesday** at 11am Pacific Time](https://sourcecred.io/calendar) on the [SourceCred Discord](https://sourcecred.io/discord).

## "This Week in SourceCred" Call

This is a weekly call aimed primarily at: active participants, participants who like to pick up work from time to time, and new participants who want to try contributing for the first time. This call gives updates about each major portion of the project as well as potential opportunities to help. It's perfect for participants who are actively contributing to SourceCred, as well as anyone who would like to be in-tune with the larger picture. 

If you are about to start contributing, you are welcome to listen in on this call as a way to gain context. However, please be mindful not to derail conversations with too many clarifying questions. If you find yourself lost at the "This Week in SourceCred" call, attend a Community Call next. The Community Call is the best place to ask questions of any kind or level of knowledge.

Note: Being a participant does not make this meeting mandatory for you.

When: Weekly,[ **Thursday** at 11am Pacific Time](https://sourcecred.io/calendar) on the[ SourceCred Discord](https://sourcecred.io/discord).

## Jams

What: A designated time to talk about a specific subject and how it relates to
SourceCred.

**Perfect for** anyone who finds that particular topic interesting or relevant
to their work in SourceCred.

Purpose: We come together to explore a specific topic, and how we can apply it
to SourceCred or vice-versa. Jams are a fun, low-barrier way to get involved in
the project.

When: No set time or reoccurrence. Jams are scheduled as one-off events, and
timing is usually based off the availability of key participants. Check out the
[SourceCred Calendar](https://sourcecred.io/calendar) to see upcoming Jams.

## Branch Specific Meetings

What: Meetings for contributors working in a specific branch to coordinate,
check in on progress, and align goals and action with each other and the branch
lead.

**Primarily for** the contributors who are working on initiatives within that
specific branch, and the branch lead.

Purpose: Keeps teams effective, aligned, and communicating. Helps grow a sense
of connection and shared goals within the branch. Gives contributors a chance to
receive help, propose new ideas, and communicate changes.

Where: Discord Main voice channel.

When: At a regular day/time of the team’s choosing. Find them on the
[SourceCred Calendar](https://sourcecred.io/calendar).

## Work Sessions

What: A generally shorter and faster-paced session scheduled for a specific team
to come together and make progress on a specific goal or initiative. Having
shorter sessions with an emphasis on getting a few singular goals completed can
make these sessions more productive than regular meetings.

**Perfect for** the contributors on a team that is actively working on a
specific initiative, and any other high-context contributors they need feedback
from. Anyone who plans to start contributing to the specific initiative in
question can attend to gain context.

Purpose: Creating a synchronous space with all the key players to really make
progress on an initiative or project. By nature of being shorter, these are also
less taxing and can help keep contributors on track.

When: Scheduled as one-off events when asynchronous coordination won’t cut it.

## One-on-Ones (1:1)

What: Time scheduled with another contributor, often someone who has more
context in the project than yourself, for the purpose of gaining context, asking
questions, expressing concerns, getting assistance, or sharing interesting
ideas.

**Note:** One-on-ones take place over personal DM voice or video call, unlike
our regular calls (which happen in the main Discord meeting room).

**Perfect for** a newer contributor and a higher-context contributor, but
certainly not limited to that dynamic.

Purpose: The reasons for a 1:1 are varied. You may have a friend in the
community who is helping you dip your toes into SourceCred for the first time,
or perhaps you work on a different project and would like to ask questions of a
specific contributor about integrations with SourceCred, or maybe you’ve been in
the community for a while and would like a guide/mentor you can touch bases with
about your SourceCred experience from time to time.

When: At the discretion of the participants.