docs/onboarding/devs/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: 💻 Onboarding as a Software Dev
description: COMING SOON
---

Onboarding for a Software Dev is a little more straightforward than for other
contributor types, and has some distinct recommendations listed below. We still
encourage you to check out our broader
[Getting Involved guide](../../beta/get-involved), our #start-here channel in
Discord, and the Community Call on Tuesdays, like anyone.

## Step 1: Orient

1. Read
   [our Github Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/blob/main/packages/sourcecred/CONTRIBUTING.md)
1. Watch:
   1. [this Data Flow walk through](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1mykBgyezrkLnN6kSMWrfq4etrwuunqe6)
      and [accompanying diagram](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_luhteFo=/)
   1. [this Code Architecture walk through](https://zoom.us/rec/share/Rv8t99k0bfPJbSwbBD7cX4wlcq-Ekf5-Ai9lvws4AxSDvD-khy546KahRYbpoZm8.6aP2NciutnkUTR-3?startTime=1620677252000)
      and [accompanying diagram](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lF3UvK4=/)

## Step 2: Jump in

1. Set up your development environment with the help of
   [this guide](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/tree/main/packages/sourcecred#development-setup)
   and [this one](../../guides/dev-env-setup). Reach out on Discord for
   additional help as needed!
1. Join the **Dev Team Sprint Planning** meeting on Discord (see our
   [calendar](https://sourcecred.io/calendar) for the current schedule). We will
   help you find a good first task and/or someone to pair with. We also welcome
   you to drop by our Social Coding sessions on the calender to co-work with us.

If you want to contribute but you're not looking to mingle at our team meetings
right now, look at our
[Good First Issues](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/labels/good%20first%20issue)
and comment to let us know you're working on one. You're also welcome to sync
with us on Discord in the #dev-team channel.

Commit message:

Update Dev Onboarding Docs “getting-started” (#292)
Automatically generated. Merged on Netlify CMS.

docs/onboarding/devs/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: 💻 Onboarding as a Software Dev
description: Recommended steps for getting involved on our team as a coder /
  software engineer.
---

Onboarding for a Software Dev is a little more straightforward than for other
contributor types, and has some distinct recommendations listed below. We still
encourage you to check out our broader
[Getting Involved guide](../../beta/get-involved), our #start-here channel in
Discord, and the Community Call on Tuesdays, like anyone.

## Step 1: Orient

1. Read
   [our Github Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/blob/main/packages/sourcecred/CONTRIBUTING.md)
1. Watch:
   1. [this Data Flow walk through](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1mykBgyezrkLnN6kSMWrfq4etrwuunqe6)
      and [accompanying diagram](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_luhteFo=/)
   1. [this Code Architecture walk through](https://zoom.us/rec/share/Rv8t99k0bfPJbSwbBD7cX4wlcq-Ekf5-Ai9lvws4AxSDvD-khy546KahRYbpoZm8.6aP2NciutnkUTR-3?startTime=1620677252000)
      and [accompanying diagram](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lF3UvK4=/)

## Step 2: Jump in

1. Set up your development environment with the help of
   [this guide](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/tree/main/packages/sourcecred#development-setup)
   and [this one](../../guides/dev-env-setup). Reach out on Discord for
   additional help as needed!
1. Join the **Dev Team Sprint Planning** meeting on Discord (see our
   [calendar](https://sourcecred.io/calendar) for the current schedule). We will
   help you find a good first task and/or someone to pair with. We also welcome
   you to drop by our Social Coding sessions on the calender to co-work with us.

If you want to contribute but you're not looking to mingle at our team meetings
right now, look at our
[Good First Issues](https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/labels/good%20first%20issue)
and comment to let us know you're working on one. You're also welcome to sync
with us on Discord in the #dev-team channel.
