---
title: Discourse
description: Setting up the Discourse plugin.
---

The Discourse plugin assigns Cred to contributors participating on Discourse
forums; for example, by posting, replying to posts, or liking posts.

The plugin does this by fetching data using the Discourse API in anonymous mode.
This means that, unlike other plugins, it does not require any credentials and
we can start loading data right away. It also means that non-public
contributions (e.g. private messages and closed topics) are not included in the
graph. The data is temporarily cached, but the source of truth for the Discourse
plugin is always the live server hosting the Discourse instance. That means that
if content is deleted on Discourse, it will also disappear from the Discourse
plugin (after a cache refresh).

## Cred flow

The full set of node and edge types used by the Discourse plugin are defined
below.

### Nodes

The Discourse plugin creates the following types of nodes in the contribution
graph:

- **User**:

A Discourse user account, e.g.
[@decentralion](https://discourse.sourcecred.io/u/decentralion/). User accounts
do not mint Cred, so setting a node weight would have no effect. Using the
identity plugin, it's possible to "collapse" user nodes with other identity
nodes into a single, canonical identity. For example, if a contributor had a
Discourse user account and a GitHub account, then the identity plugin can
collapse those identities together.

Users are connected to posts they author, to posts they like, and to posts that
mention them.

- **Bot**:

{SB: below is copied from GitHub page. Still true for Discourse? Do we support
Discourse bots?} A Discourse user account that has been explicitly marked as a
bot, via inclusion in bots.js. This is useful so we can filter out bot accounts
from receiving grain or showing up in the Cred rankings.

Bots have the same connections as users.

- **Topic**:

A Discourse topic, e.g.
[About Champions and Heroes](https://discourse.sourcecred.io/t/about-champions-and-heroes/291).
Typically referred to as "threads" in other forum software, a topic is a
collection of posts. When users create a new topic and are prompted to create a
post, the post they create is actually the first post in the topic, not the
topic itself. A topic is just a collection of posts. A topic node will be
connected to its author (user node creating the topic), all posts in the topic,
and any references to the topic.

- **Post**:

A Discourse post, e.g.
[_comment on:_ About Champions and Heroes](https://discourse.sourcecred.io/t/about-champions-and-heroes/291/7).
Everything under a topic is a post, including the first post and all subsequent
replies. A post node will be connected to its author (user node that created the
post), any replies to that post, and references to that post. {SB: elaborate
more on references here? Is it

- **Like**:

A Discourse like on a post. When a user likes a post, a like node is created
that is connected to the author of the like (user that liked) and the liked
post.

### Edges

The Discourse plugin creates the following kinds of edges (connections between
nodes) in the contribution graph:

- **Authors**:

An "authors" edge connects an author (user or bot) to a topic or post they
created.

- **References**:

A references edge connects a topic or post to another referencable node (i.e. a
node that corresponds to a specific url on Discourse ).

If the reference is pointing to a user, we call it a "mention", but from
SourceCred's perspective it's the same kind of edge.

References in Discourse can be either hyperlinks to referencable nodes, or
quoted parts of other posts.

- **Reply to**:

A reply-to edge connects a post to the post it is replying to.

The Discourse plugin creates the following kinds of edges (connections between
nodes) in the contribution graph:

- **Creates Like**:

A "creates like" edge connects a like node to its author and liked post or
topic.

- **Has Parent**:

A has-parent edge connects a "child" node to its "parent" node. Here's a table
summarizing these relationships:

| Child  | Parent |
| ------ | ------ |
| Post   | Topic  |
| Reply  | Post   |
| Like?? | Post?? |

## Status and Caveats

The Discourse plugin is currently in Beta. It assigns Cred scores that are
reasonable and robust for a [trust level 3](/docs/concepts/trust_levels)
community.

Currently, there are two general approaches to minting Cred you can take with
the Discourse plugin: activity-minted and like-minted Cred (or a hybrid of the
two). Activity-minted Cred means Cred would be minted for each new topic or post
created. While like-minted Cred mints new Cred for each like given.

The plugin defaults to using like-minted Cred. For most communities this will be
the better approach. Unlike activity-minted Cred, like-minted Cred allows people
to validate contributions. People soon learn their likes signal "this is
valuable and I'd like to see more of this", which incentivizes the creation of
high-quality posts.

The caveat is that it creates some "popularity contest" dynamics, where memes
and/or heavily promoted posts might receive more likes than makes sense for the
relative value they've added. It's something which would be easy to game, making
it less suitable for lower trust levels for the time being.

When a Discourse forum is very new, and does not have much content,
activity-minted Cred may be more suitable, at least in the beginning. This is
because new forums are often "lower stakes" (unless you're paying significant
sums of money according to scores right away, or have other strong incentives
for gaming). In new forums, the community is likelier to be smaller, higher
trust, and less susceptible to gaming. In addition, you may want to incentivize
raw activity in order to build up enough content to attract more users.

Another thing to keep in mind is that only public posts are included for Cred
calculation. Private categories and private messages, for example, receive no
Cred. This both creates an incentive to have discussions in public as much as
possible, and is necessary for security as private data could otherwise leak.

---



[trust level]: ../../concepts/trust_levels.md
[v0.5.0 release]: https://github.com/sourcecred/sourcecred/issues/1679
